When it comes to messages designed to influence
attitudes and change behaviours the entity delivering those **messages** — a.k.a. **the messenger** — can be as important, sometimes more so, than the substance of the message itself.

We define a ‘Messenger’ as any agent that delivers information and a ‘Messenger Effect’ as a change in the level of influence a message has because of who sent it. Our framework is built upon two broad categories of messenger: hard and soft. Hard messengers have their messages accepted because they are perceived to possess superior **Status**. Soft Messengers, in contrast, are listened to because audiences feel a **Connectedness** to them. Within these hard and soft categories lie eight fundamental traits, four hard-related and four soft-related, which each reliably impact whether or not people will listen to a messenger. 

Hard effects:
- SOCIO ECONOMIC POSITION
- COMPETENCE
- DOMINANCE
- ATTRACTIVENESS

Soft effects:
- WARMTH
- VULNERABILITY
- TRUSTWORTHINESS
- CHARISMA

## HARD MESSENGERS
Hard messengers possess, or appear to possess, elevated status. Messengers with high status are influential in groups and societies because they are believed to possess power or useful qualities that may be valuable to those around them. Think CEO of a company or the captain of a sports team. Typically, we associate status with hierarchies in the workplace because they provide a clear organisational structure where those at the top make the important decisions and wield the greatest influence. But status hierarchies are also found in our schools, family groups, our networks of friends and associates, and our local communities. Our research has identified four important traits that contribute to status-driven messenger success: socio-economic position, competence, dominance and attractiveness. 

### SOCIO-ECONOMIC POSITION
Socio-economic position is important because it communicates the kind of lifestyle a person enjoys; the social circles they inhabit; and the resources they access have to. A messenger’s socio-economic position can be inferred from all sorts of signals, such as the cars they drive, the clothes they wear  and their motivation to engage with others. One study even found that people could make accurate assumptions about a messenger’s income, social class and their parents’ educational background, simply by viewing their Facebook profile picture.  The conclusions people draw about a messenger’s socio-economic position from such cues subsequently determine how favourably they treat them and how receptive they are to what they have to say.

Celebrities are the ultimate high-status messengers, which is not always a good thing. In 2018, health officials in China scrambled to contain a rumour regarding the effectiveness of the influenza vaccine after Canto-pop singer Kay Tse On-Kei claimed on WhatsApp, without evidence and contrary to expert opinion, that ninety percent of people who received the vaccine then caught the virus.

### COMPETENCE
Just as we have a tendency to defer to messengers who exude elevated socio-economic position, so too do we defer to those who show signs of competence. Competent messengers are listened to because they are thought to possess the experience, skills and knowledge that can help others to achieve their goals. The cues we use to decide whether an individual (or an organisation) possesses competence are as numerous as they are surprising. Clothes, physical height and even the clocks positioned in company reception areas displaying the time in different countries provide observers with cues of competence. Competence even has a face. 

Computational modelling techniques have led researchers to conclude that the competent face is mature-looking and attractive. It is typically less round than the average face, with higher cheekbones, a more angular jaw and a shorter distance between the eyebrows and eyes. These principles hold true for both males and females. Simply looking competent can often be enough to convince people that a messenger is competent. This was well demonstrated in a study in which people were given 50 photographs of Chief Executive Officers to examine - half of them the CEOs of the 25 highest ranked companies listed on the Fortune 1,000, the other half drawn from the 25 lowest ranked organisations - and asked to infer their personality characteristics. The results were astonishing. The faces
rated by the volunteers as the most competent tended to head the more profitable and successful organizations, while those judged to be less competent tended to be in charge of the less financially successful companies. The results were not limited to male appointees, nor solely to business. When researchers showed people pictures of female CEOs the results were consistent. And when asked to provide intuitive competency ratings after viewing photographs of politicians, observers’ impressions were highly correlated with the actual election results.

### DOMINANCE
Dominant messengers impose on their audiences, often in a self-interested manner and at the expense of others. Their central goal is to triumph in competitive encounters. Dominance is therefore not just a behavioural outcome, as when one person bests another, but also a personality trait and individuals who possess it act competitively, even aggressively. Dominant types are combative rather than cooperative and to the dominant messenger “winning is more important than how you play the game.” So why do people listen to them?

From an astonishingly early age, a deeply embedded expectation resides in us all: to the victor, goes the spoils. Cues of dominance and the beliefs we have about how others will respond to them are so deeply embedded they can be recognised by children as young as 10 months old.

This is because dominant individuals have the capability to inflict costs and endow benefits onto others. We therefore use
dominance as a cue to navigate our social environment and frequently reward those who possess it with increased attention and deference. No surprise, then, that dominant messengers are frequently effective messengers. But they are not without their limits. Dominant messengers typically thrive when conflict, competition and uncertainty are rife. When choosing a CEO for a company whose share price is falling and whose employees are stressed, studies show dominate candidates are more likely to be favoured. But when company performance is good and employees feel psychologically safe, less dominant leaders are selected. The same is true in politics, leading some to stoke fear in order to create a climate that favours their dominant disposition.

### ATTRACTIVENESS
The fourth hard messenger effect is attractiveness. Rather than possessing instrumental value like superior knowledge or power, the attractive messenger can have a powerful effect because they have high mate value. As a result, societies’ beautiful are often given preferential treatment, awarded higher status and so wield greater influence than less attractive members. In the labour market, attractive employees are more likely to be offered jobs, gain promotions and earn more than their average-in-appearance colleagues - a phenomenon that has become known as the ‘beauty premium’. It is possible that attractive employees receive additional workplace benefits simply because other people look up to them and prefer their company. However, in some organisational contexts there may be genuine differences in productivity between them and their less attractive counterparts. For example, one study looked at the effect of a salesperson’s attractiveness on their ability to successfully sell prescription drugs to physicians. Trained doctors tend to deny their vulnerability to succumbing to an attractive messenger, but the data tells a different story.
The results showed that the attractiveness of the salesperson was related to the amount of drug the doctors prescribed.

## SOFT MESSENGERS
The standout feature of Soft Messengers is the *connectedness* audiences feel towards them. Humans are social animals and have a strong desire to form connections, bond and cooperate with others. People don’t always look to those with status for information. Sometimes they prefer to hear from their friends, those they trust, and the people who are ‘like them’. Our research finds the four most important traits that contribute to connectedness-driven messenger success are: warmth, vulnerability, trustworthiness and charisma. 

### WARMTH
Warm messengers care about their audience’s welfare and want to cooperate rather than compete with them. They don’t seek to
demonstrate their status but rather, their benevolence. They do this by expressing positivity and using warm language to help smooth social interactions. No one closes a conversation with Siri or Alexa by saying, “You take care now!” but we reliably signal our warmth and friendliness to other people using polite words and phrases. This can have a big impact. One study found that dominant sounding doctors were more than twice as likely to be sued for malpractice than an equally competent group of doctors who used a warmer tone of voice.

### VULNERABILITY
Our impulse to help others is an automatic, emotional response that is formed early in life. That’s why messengers who signal their vulnerability will often be listened to more than those who remain closed off. Defence attorneys frequently present their clients as vulnerable individuals who suffered a lot in life to get judge and jury on side. Contestants in talent shows often find themselves at an advantage if they possess a ‘vulnerability’ or ‘back story’ leading some to claim that their deficiencies and shortcomings are as important as their talents.

Financial compensation can certainly incentivise people to give aid to those in need – social workers and nurses don’t work for free – but this powerful internal motivation to help the vulnerable can sometimes cancel out the need for economic rewards. One study found that the more money people were offered, the more willing they were to allow someone to jump ahead of them in an airport line. That’s hardly a surprise. The real surprise was people rarely took the money. Rather than a sign of inducement, it was seen as a sign of vulnerability. “If you’re willing to pay $100 to cut in line you really must be desperate.”

### TRUSTWORTHINESS
Trust is the third messenger effect and is crucial to any human relationship. Without it, it is hard to have successful romantic relationships, productive workplace collaborations or prosperous economic exchanges. There are two broad forms of trust; competence-based trust, which is based on our confidence in a messenger’s capabilities, and integrity-based trust, which is our belief that a messenger will uphold
good moral standards even if a temptation to violate them arises.

Truthfulness and trustworthiness are not the same thing. Research has shown that by following certain group norms a messenger can earn ‘group credits’ from their audience that can help to cover the cost of future mistakes or even wrong doing they may engage in. This goes some way to explaining how some messengers can lie to and deceive audiences yet still maintain their position and loyalty. 

### CHARISMA
The fourth soft messenger effect is Charisma which has been defined as a compelling attractiveness or charm that inspires devotion in others. But how do messengers compel audiences and evoke devotion? One important element is an ability to articulate a collective identity and vision. Another is what psychologists call surgency. To have ‘high surgency’ is to outwardly express greater levels of energy, enthusiasm and positivity through, amongst other things, body language. Indeed, studies find the most successful TED talks are typically made by presenters who use around twice as many hand gestures as their less successful peers.

## LISTENING…BELIEVING…BECOMING
In this essay we have briefly summarised our investigation into over sixty years’ worth of research exploring the traits of communicators to whom people are most inclined to listen. The eight messenger effects identified—four of them ‘status-driven’ hard effects and the other four ‘connectedness-driven’ soft effects—underpin every aspect of daily social interaction and help explain three key processes. Who we listen to. What we believe. And who we become. 

**LISTENING** — each messenger trait has an attention-capturing quality that is automatic and unthinking. However, the latest research suggests that those perceived as powerful and dominant, who can potentially have the greatest impact on our welfare, are attended to more quickly than softer types. Similarly, attractive individuals also draw attention particularly easily, due to the evolutionary and social value of this messenger trait. Of course, just because a person commands attention this doesn’t guarantee that any ideas, opinions or requests then expressed are accepted or complied with, but it does mean that they won’t fall on deaf ears. The fact they’re
receiving attention means that their messages are more likely to be given consideration. 

**BELIEVING** — as people are drawn in by these messenger cues, their preparedness to believe what they hear also increases. Especially to the extent the nature of the messenger and their message are aligned. Life-saving advice sounds more convincing when delivered by someone with the appearance of competence. Instructions during a fire drill more credible when hollered by a dominant-sounding voice. Encouragement and empathy seem more genuine when delivered by a warm messenger. 

**BECOMING** — if listeners become more attentive and receptive, not only might they start to believe a messenger. Their belief can begin to shape how they then behave and ultimately who they become. A shy teenager might be prompted by an aggressively dominant friend to take drugs or join a gang; or they might be persuaded by a charismatic classmate to stick to the straight and narrow. An adult’s choice of career or partner might be shaped by the influence of one particularly powerful messenger. So too might their decision to vaccinate their child or not. An apolitical person may be turned into a serial voter by a celebrity. In some cases it might even be the celebrity that is voted for, leading to the possibility of an entire country’s future becoming shaped not necessarily by a proficient messenger but simply one who is prominent and dominant. Our fundamental personalities may be genetically coded and remain relatively stable over time. But everything else in our lives is fair game…to the messengers in society that we listen to.