## Desire

**Desire** is always linked to a story, and to a gap that needs to be filled: a yearning that intrudes, agitates and motivates human behavior both consciously and unconsciously.

Desire manifests in one form or another hundreds of times a day, in countless faces and guises. It can show up as sexual desire, or in our appetite for food, or for alcohol, or for drugs. It can appear as the desire for money, or for status, or the need to belong to a group, the need to blend in with a crowd or, alternately, to stand out. It can be the desire to become one with another person, or with nature, or with music, or with what’s commonly known as “the universe.” We crave the security of the past, which is a desire, and the promise of the future, which is another desire. In order to “become” more desirable to others, we buy new clothes, brush our teeth, apply face cream, shave, order a new pair of glasses. (At the same time, as a friend of mine once observed, “The most difficult thing is to look in the mirror and describe yourself.”)

Needless to say, **desire is elusive**. It has a habit of receding once you think you’ve captured it, only to show up again a few seconds later. All across the world, every culture has its own corridors for desire and escape. Brazilians go to the beach, as do natives of Sydney and Los Angeles. Americans, Middle Easterners and Indians all flock to the movies, or to malls; the English cluster at soccer matches, and at pubs. If you live in Saudi Arabia, escape may involve a trip to Oman. If you live in Oman, escape may be a trip to Dubai. For a Dubai native, escape means London. For a Londoner, escape involves the Andalusian coast of Spain, or the south of France, or California, or Florida. We desire whatever it is — the place, the person, the thing, the period in our lives — we’re convinced we’re lacking.

Despite the 7 billion or so people inhabiting the earth, in my experience there are only anywhere from 500 to 1,000 truly unique people in the world. This isn’t to put down individuality; instead, it recognizes the degrees of connectivity aligning humans who ultimately can be “divided” by four criteria: Climate, Rulership, Religion and Tradition.

**Climate** is only indirectly linked to the sun shining overhead, or whether or not your winters are cold or temperate. Rather, it refers to how your environment reflects and also influences behavior and diet. Scandinavian natives, for example, favor a diet weighted heavily toward richer, fattier foods, whereas the Mediterranean diet is lighter and more oil-based.

**Rulership** refers to the power, or government, in charge, whether it’s Vladimir Putin in Russia, a Democratic or Republican regime in the United States, the Communist Party in China, or the dictatorships of Iran, Jordan, Ethiopia, Sudan and elsewhere. How free are a country’s residents? 

**Religion**, of course, refers to the influence of belief in a country, how dominant or irrelevant it is, and whether a person’s belief system lies behind decision-making processes. 

**Tradition** focuses on a country’s unspoken protocols, whether it is the European habit to ignore other elevator passengers or the American predilection for friendliness.

**In every case, something was missing from people’s lives: a subconscious desire.** By identifying an unmet desire, you are that much closer to uncovering a gap that can be fulfilled with a new product, a new brand or a new business. Remember that every culture in the world is out of balance, or in some way exaggerated — and in that exaggeration lies desire.

**The 7Cs in Framework stand for Collecting, Clues, Connecting, Causation, Correlation, Compensation and Concept. **

## COLLECTING, OR, HOW ARE YOUR OBSERVATIONS TRANSLATED INSIDE A HOME?

The viral Internet dress photo is a good reminder that none of us sees the world in the same way. Most of us are blinded by the familiar. We surround ourselves with people who are like us, who believe the same things we do. Our Facebook newsfeeds are no different, reflecting our interests, beliefs, concerns and biases.

The first step in the 7C process, then, is to do everything you can to remove the filter that keeps you from seeing what is really going on. My advice? Get a haircut.

Let me explain. The “collecting” step begins with establishing navigation points, on both macro and micro levels. This includes getting perspectives from cultural observers, for example, people who are new to the area, either expats or people who see the community through objective eyes. Ask them: What does the neighborhood, or city, or town, look like and feel like? Are the sidewalks deserted? Are there children playing outside? Are people friendly? Do you ever feel scared, and if so, why? Is there any sense of neighborhood pride? If you see people on the streets, do they meet your eyes or look away? Is the garbage picked up regularly? What makes a city or town come together? What divides it? Why? Visiting Brazil, I quickly found out that the nation is preoccupied with football and religion, and divided by restrictive class levels. There was a tension implicit in these layers. Did Brazilians need to escape? This tentative hypothesis was one I would eventually shape and refine.

Now, seek out a hairdresser or one or several other “local observers” who can help you establish a baseline perspective, and who inhabit a more or less neutral space within a community. It doesn’t have to be a hairdresser; it could be a bartender, a mailman, or a church, community or sports club leader. Whoever it is, cultural and local observers are privy to information most people are not. They can tell you what’s really going on. They are more or less unbiased. They can also point you to their own networks of friends and acquaintances.

The navigation points you gather from local observers will help you to frame your initial observations and create a hypothesis before you enter a consumer’s home. In turn, your initial hypothesis will help you create “tracks,” or topics of interest or focus, to follow once you begin interviewing consumers. Only rarely will one of your first six tracks be the final one, and half of them will later be disproven or tossed away. Think of them as stepping-stones that lead to bigger and better stepping-stones that lead, finally, to a concept.

At this collecting stage, you are trying to capture as many different perspectives from as many trustworthy sources as possible. If you have any doubt whether these local observers are useful, or reliable, social media is a fast, easy way to confirm their degree of integration into a community. People active in social media are, by nature, extroverted and confident. Take notice of how often they post; their degree of curation; the relevance of their content; and whether or not there is a touch of swagger or exhibition to their postings—all of which combine to create an ideal local observer. Bear in mind that local observers often have both a public and a private Facebook profile, making it easier to contact them. During your preliminary phone call, by asking the same questions you asked of cultural observers, you can quickly discover if their perspectives are useful or not.

If you are working on behalf of an existing brand, I also recommend interviewing the brand’s past, current and potential future users—a group that ideally should reflect 50 percent of the total aggregate of respondents.

## CLUES, OR, WHAT ARE THE DISTINCTIVE EMOTIONAL REFLECTIONS YOU ARE OBSERVING?

Remember, you are an investigator whose goal is to create a narrative, a cohesive story that hangs together. For this reason, nothing you see or hear is irrelevant or wasted. Imagine that you are equipped with a hypothesis and entering someone’s home for the first time. (Your hypothesis may be true, half true or false—you don’t know yet.) Think of a residence as a place that is home to an infinite series of small voices that owners are broadcasting in every room. Are the voices congruent, or are they out of tune? What unconscious, seemingly random pieces of small data are hanging from the walls, hiding inside “off-limits” zones like the refrigerator and the kitchen cabinets? Everything in the home, from the art on the walls to the insides of bathroom cabinets, is positioned where it is for a reason.

Here, I regularly call upon a model to divide the assorted “selves” that make up the average consumer. First is the idealized self we project onto the world, the one focused around how we’d like others to see us (which, I might add, is often very different from who we actually are). This manicured, public self is similar to the one we assemble on our Facebook pages and Instagram accounts. Components that also fall under the category of “idealized self” are the objects we collect and display in our homes, from photographs to heirlooms to tchotchkes. Over the years, I’ve observed that our collections form a timeline of our lives, a secondary calendar that offers a valuable perspective on who we are—or believe we are—and where we’ve been. The most common “recharging station” for reflecting on what we have accumulated is the living room, and for adolescents, backpacks and laptop covers.

That said, the places where our idealized selves conflict with our actual selves tend to be private: our refrigerators, kitchen cabinets, wardrobes and—in the case of men—garages and online folders.

Often, it is what is missing that forms the cornerstone of a successful hypothesis. Take Denmark, for example, with its countless “conversation kitchens” and untouched, unused Brio tracks. On the surface, most Danish homes are “perfect” in appearance. Get closer, and you will realize that room after room is, in fact, staged, and the country’s stress levels are among the highest in the world. Relatedly, take note of a small symbol that may, in fact, overwhelm every other clue. In a small residence inside a Brazilian favela, I saw a flower in a cup inside a beer can on a shelf. In a gritty environment, it stood out as a badge of hope.

As LEGO found out more than a decade ago, the question “What are you most proud of?” can yield surprising and transformative answers. It could be an old guitar; a handmade quilt; a contemporary painting; a set of vintage wineglasses. Ask respondents if you can look through old photo albums or iPhoto collections. Explore the refrigerator and the kitchen and bathroom cupboards before moving into the bedroom and the bedroom closets. Determine how people want to be perceived by the rest of the world by asking them to show you their favorite piece of clothing. Determine the age of their Twin Self by paying close attention to the musical playlists on their smartphones, computers or streaming music services. Do they subscribe to any iTunes television shows or movies? If applicable, what films and TV shows are in their Netflix queues? (In this way, you can determine their shared cultural references.) What evokes the strongest emotion in them? Is it pride? Is it the memory of a loved one? Is it a pet? Is it a child? Finally, I ask people to answer two questions: What is most important in your life? and What worries you the most?

Don’t be discouraged if at first you don’t find what you are looking for. Such is the nature—even the definition—of detective work.

## CONNECTING, OR, WHAT ARE THE CONSEQUENCES OF THE EMOTIONAL BEHAVIOR?

By now, you probably have half-a-dozen or more pieces of small data in front of you. You may find yourself, as I did with Lowes, in a culture that prohibits touching, and whose downtowns empty out at 5 p.m. every afternoon and where there is a striking absence of community and belonging. In the case of Trollbeads, by this point I had discovered that the brand’s fans were aware something was missing from their lives; and that consumers attracted to Roombas were staging their homes using a technological gadget as a conversation piece.

Ask yourself: Are there any similarities among the clues you have accumulated? Are the clues beginning to tilt in one direction? If you had one, are you beginning to validate your initial hypothesis?

Remember that a clue might be physical (an extravagantly patterned shirt that doesn’t fit with the rest of a respondent’s wardrobe) or emotional (a respondent is obsessed with U2). You are seeking an emotional gap—too much or too little of something. As is the case with many homes in Denmark, if you enter a home where nothing is out of context, you know you’ve struck gold. If you are on the right track, the body language of respondents will often show unease or outright discomfort, in which case you will know you are onto something.

## CAUSATION, OR WHAT EMOTION DOES IT EVOKE?

For Lowes customers, the routines of their lives had become a self-fulfilling prophecy. Trollbeads consumers were experiencing a sense of deep insecurity, whereas Roomba customers found the product a way to fill a vacuum of loneliness and insecurity. It’s now time to gather your findings in your office or place of work, and begin the process of Small Mining.

Generally, I mount a time line consisting of photographs and observations on a large bulletin board. It is here that your wall reflects the emotional DNA that you have found, as well as the correlations you’ve identified along the way. Place all these observations and photographs together and seek out the commonalities.

Ask yourself, “What emotion will this evoke in a human being?”

At this point, it’s essential to put yourself in the shoes of respondents. If you were he or she, how would you feel? What would you want? This isn’t a particularly easy question to answer, especially in cultures alien from our own. If it is too challenging, it might be a good time to call, or revisit, the cultural or local observers you interviewed before beginning the clue-gathering process. Present your observations to them. Ask them what they think.

## CORRELATION, OR, WHEN DID THE BEHAVIOR OR EMOTION FIRST APPEAR?

In the correlation stage, we seek evidence of a shift, or change in a consumer’s behavior, otherwise known as an entry point. When did this change take place? Did it happen when she got married? When she had her first child? When she got divorced? An entry point, or personality shift, can be expressed via clothing, or by adopting a new set of friends, getting (or losing) a partner, sending children off to college or any other major milestone or career transition.

As I wrote earlier, we are too close to ourselves to observe what is familiar. For this reason, often during the Small Mining process, we need to reset our own perspective by reaching out to one of the respondent’s friends or family members. Contact this person so that he or she can help validate, or add to, your thinking during the latter part of the interview.

## COMPENSATION, OR, WHAT IS THE UNMET OR UNFULFILLED DESIRE?

Having found evidence of a shift, it’s now time to distill it to its most emotional essence: desire. What is the desire that is not being fulfilled? What is the best way to fulfill it? With Lowes, the answer was to create a strong sense of belonging within a physical setting. Trollbeads fans needed to reconnect and rediscover what it felt like to belong to a group; and Roomba fans needed a way to show the world their humanity.

Often, by poring through people’s photo albums, you will find the answer. As you review the pages, look for the happiest moments in people’s lives. Use them as reflections of a time, or a moment, when people felt most in harmony, on top, at peace and emotionally fulfilled.

Inside these two poles—where people felt emotionally fulfilled versus where they are right now in their lives—is where you will find desire. Does the desire you have identified complement the cultural and local observations, as well as the clues you observed inside respondents’ homes?

## CONCEPT, OR, WHAT IS THE “BIG IDEA” COMPENSATION FOR THE CONSUMER DESIRE YOU HAVE IDENTIFIED?

Take your observations home and mull them over. As I wrote earlier, my best ideas come as a result of swimming laps in hotel pools. I fundamentally believe that “creativity” involves combining two ordinary things in a completely novel way. LEGO Mindstorms—the company’s brand of customizable robots—involved merging LEGO building blocks with a computer chip. Uber involved combining a private car service with a social media network. In my own work, Lowes 2.0 came as the result of combining a supermarket with entertainment and community, while Tally Weijl 2.0 mixed and matched social media with the traditional dressing room.

Ideas, remember, are less likely to germinate under pressure. They come together when we least expect them. So swim, bike, garden, walk along the sand.

I’m often reminded of the most memorable interview I have ever conducted. The reason it was so revealing, I realized later, was that I got the time of our appointment wrong and showed up an hour before I was supposed to. When I rang the doorbell, the respondent, a middle-aged woman, greeted me at the door. She had just gotten out of bed, her hair was uncombed and she was wearing a loose blue bathrobe. She didn’t look at all pleased to see me. I apologized repeatedly for getting the time wrong, and told her I would come back in an hour, but she insisted I come in anyway.

What followed was the most honest interview I’ve ever conducted. The woman had had no time to get ready. She’d had no time to prepare her face, or clean her house. I was seeing her, for all intents and purposes, naked. Accordingly, there was no point in deception, no point in telling me what she assumed I wanted to hear. Two hours later, I left her house reminded of the sheer hours of our lives we spend putting on masks to greet the world.

Based on the findings of a recent qualitative survey carried out in Switzerland, in fact, most of us have up to ten discreet interdependent social identities—identities, the study concludes, which are often in conflict.16 Let’s imagine a middle-aged bank teller living in Pensacola, Florida. He is a father, a son and a husband. He is a Floridian. He is a bank employee. He is also a bicyclist and a recreational runner, and at night, drinking with his friends, he is “the funny one.” He is also a vegetarian, an amateur guitarist, and on weekends he helps coach soccer at his daughter’s high school. Then there are his online identities, including his Facebook, Twitter and Instagram selves. Most surprising is that the man’s ethical mind-set, honesty, sociability and even level of social engagement changes from personality to personality. Imagine that in his professional role, for example, he may be primed to dissembling, or outright deceit, while simultaneously, as a dad, he finds dishonesty repellent. My role—the role of anyone trying to make sense out of small data—is to understand not just one single personality, but all of them.

Which is why in the end the secret behind any ethnographic research will never be found in any methodology, even mine. It begins with yourself. Who are you? What are you like when you’re by yourself? When you post a status update on Facebook, or “like” a piece of music, what are you telling the world about yourself? When you buy a pair of pants, or a new brand of shoes, when you hang a set of bamboo curtains across your window or cherry-pick photographs to tack onto your refrigerator, or leave out a bottle of facial moisturizer in your bathroom, what are you communicating? In our small data, now and forever, lies the greatest evidence of who we are and what we desire, even if, as LEGO executives found out more than a decade ago, it’s a pair of old Adidas sneakers with worn-down heels.